Project Flow:
1. Data ingestion and acquisition is done through Sqoop from RDBMS and into Linux file system
from Cloud or any other sources.
2. Merge the 2 dataset using hive and split the defaulters and non-defaulters into 2 data sets and
load into hdfs.
3. Create a hive table with header line count as 1.
4. Create one more fixed width hive table to load the fixed width states_fixed width data.
5. Create and load penality data into the hive table serialized with orc.
6. Export the Defaulters and Non Defaulters data into HDFS with comma delimiter, where non
defaulters data added with trailer data for consumer systems validation.
7. Perform dist copy of non defaulters data from Prod cluster to non prod clusters that will be used
for analytics purposes.
8. Run a shell script to pull the data from Cloud S3, validate, remove trailer data, move to HDFS
and archive the data for backup
9. Create a partitioned table and run a shell script to which has to generate the load command and
it has to load the data into the below insurance table automatically
10. Create a fixed width hive table to load the fixed width states_fixedwidth data using Regex Serde
11. Apply Data Governance - Redaction and Masking using Hive and Python
12. Data Provisioning to the Consumers into legacy Databases using Sqoop including Validation
13. Complex type ETL using Hive
14. Data movement & migration from DB to HBase using Sqoop
15. Data movement & migration from Hive to HBase using Storage Handler
Sqoop Direct Import to HBase

Data Consumers

Realtime Aggregation Queries
for Analytics & Reporting

Legacy RDBMS
Reports
Batch/Interactive
OLAP Reports
DISTCP from Prod Cluster to Non Prod Cluster
Non Prod
Hadoop Cluster

PROD CLUSTER (HADOOP)

16. Data Provisioning to the Consumers using Apache Phoenix to support Realtime aggregation and
Low Latency Query processing
17. Write queries to build cubes at different levels to aggregate the data in realtime to populate in
the report such as average age, sum of bill amount, average bill amount etc.,
Login to VMWare –
Prerequisites:
Start Hadoop, history server, hive in mr mode, mysql service, hive metastore, hbase and phoenix